
GULF WAR 96-  TCSC DESERT CAMPAIGN ADD ON.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

zczc2345553212.abrdtgf. encrypted

4/Feb/96
18:32z

TOP SECRET - EYES ONLY

FLASH MESSAGE 


Be advised that at 06:22 local time this morning Iraqi forces launched a SCUD
missile attack on the cities of  Kuwait City, Kuwait, Riyadh and Dammam.
The missiles contained chemical weapons and the loss of life has been
estimated as "several hundred " citizens of both countries.  The missiles
did minimal physical damage but in a combined arms movement, Saudi
and American AWACS aircraft detected low flying SU-25 aircraft and
helo traffic moving in the Kuwait border area.   Approximately 6 armored
divisions of Iraqi ground forces are also estimated to be moving to recapture
Kuwait and to expand that territory with an expeditionary force into 
northeastern Saudi Arabia.  Kafji and Dammam are imminently threatened
and the country of Bahrain is under duress as well.

CIA and Russian satellite intelligence estimates from launch plume detection
that approximately 19 missiles were fired from just inside the Iraqi border.
Of the 19, we estimate that 14 hit their geographic targets.  It is concluded
from the accuracy of the missile hits, that these are improved North Korean
SCUDs.   

As of  07:45 the Saudi's and Kuwaiti's have declared war on Iraq and the
Israelis may well do so before the day is out.  Keeping them out of this
conflict is viewed as just short of impossible.  However Syrian instability
in the Golan may well keep the Israelis at home.

American Delta Force troops and Aircraft are being despatched from Diego
Garcia in the Indian Ocean and Ft. Bragg NC within the next three hours
as are 56 F-15E Strike Eagles,  24 F-117 Nighthawks and 22 F-111 Aircraft
to King Kahlid Military Airbase in Saudi Arabia.   24 of the F-15E Aircraft
will depart from Bitburg Airbase Germany.  Additional US and NATO Troops
are expected to be engaged within days as are additional USAF F-15c and
F-16 fighter units.  The US Aircraft Carriers Eisenhower and Reagan in the
Arabian Gulf have immediately set up CAP flights and are preparing for
offensive operations.   The French Carrier Foch was in the Red Sea preparing
to transit the Suez in return from a cruise in the South Pacific at the time of 
the attack and has been ordered to remain on station until the arrival of the
US Carrier Vinson from the Med within 3 days.  Your ECR squadron and two other
Luftwaffe Tornado squadrons are ordered to deploy immediately to King Kahlid
Airbase and report to the NATO Allied Commander, General Sir Basil Copeland,
CBE within the next 36 hours. 

LOCAL SITUATION:  The local Arab populace is severely demoralized by
the chemical weapons attack.  Rail facilities are clogged with citizens
fleeing the cities while the port operations at Dammam have ceased for
similar reasons.   Approximatey 5 cellular containerships were left in
various states of  work and are blocking the berths.  It is estimated that
these ships will be moved in time for the Arrival of US Rapid Deployment
Ro/Ro vessels from Deigo Garcia, within 3 days.   Further, the unit
trains from Dammam to the major cities have been damaged by 2 quite
lucky hits that destroyed rail engines and container cars in Dammam.
These fouled the rails for at least 3 days.  Most importantly desalinization
plants in Dammam were fouled by the chemical weapons rendering a
great portion of the populace potentially without water.  This factor alone
has sent the Saudi's into a xenophobic panic. Because of these three factors
and contamination of fuel/water reserves in the cities, allied supplies
will be limited until US and other Allied Forces can begin an air pipeline into
Riyadh.  It is thought that the US President will initiate the CRAF program
again within the next two days and that USAF and Chartered Aircraft will
begin active ferrry traffic within 4 days.  Until then, your unit and that
of other Allied Units will be operating on a self contained basis until 
supplies are once again available.

Your task:  On arrival in Saudi Arabia, you are ordered to conduct aggressive
offensive operations against Iraqi Targets of opportunity.  Particular attention
must be paid to SCUD hunting and to destruction of  Iraqi Rail facilities
to prevent the transport of additional chemical weapons traffic to the front.
Further Attention must also be paid to the destruction of potential
command and control centers in order to destroy the C3 of the enemy
units.   The Allied Forces will conduct themselves in an all out lighting
war in this engagement.  No, repeat No, ceasefire will be accepted without
the destruction of the current Iraqi regime and its attendant war machine.
Saddam Hussein will be hunted vigourously by both Intelligence and
Military means.  Decapitation will be sought at every opportunity.
  

Good luck and good hunting.

Transmission ends...

EOF

